- Spotted them about an hour ago.
- Why are they moving like that?
No reason.
Wrong.
There is reason for everything.
What about you, Dixon?
You ever seen rotters
move like that?
Yeah. Yeah, I've seen that before.
South of here.
I don't know why it happens.
They just gather up a whole bunch
of them and move on.
Could take them down.
Like we did at that hospital
in Rockville. Easy.
Till you almost bought it and
I had to save your ass.
That was just when things
were getting fun.
I can lead them out about two miles,
just double back.
Less work, less risk.
Yeah, less balls.
We'll try it Dixon's way.
- All right.
- Wells.
- Think you can move those rotters?
- Yes, sir.
- I can do it. I've done it before.
- Wells can handle it.
Hey, Pied Piper. How's the piping?
You kidding? I'm the belle
of the ball out here. They love me.
All right, Belle.
Step it up, ugly. It's getting late
and I'm getting hungry.
Come on. Come on.
Sir, we have a situation here.
What kind of situation?
Wells, do you copy?
- What's with that door?
- It's rotted out.
This storm keeps up,
it'll shake apart.
I'll check on the babies.
It's only thunder.
It can't hurt you.
You know what Mom said about storms?
They're always followed
by clear skies.
- I wish she was here.
- I know. Me too.
Stay here.
- Move.
- Okay, keep it closed.
Is everyone okay?
That's even worse.
- What was that?
- Piece of the wall.
Come on. Get back.
Wells, it's Shaw. Do you copy? Over.
- I'm going after him.
- There's no point.
He's already dead.
I've seen him
kill dozens of rotters at a time.
They didn't kill him.
She did.
My enemy.
Huh.
So you did come back.
You thought that woman
was out there?
And you sent Paul in?
- What was he, bait?
- He was a soldier.
- Soldiers sometimes fall.
- No. He was more than that.
- He was family.
- Yes.
- Whose fate, God decided.
- God didn't send him out there.
You did.
A decision
you disagree with, Shaw?
You have had a hell lot to say
ever since your boyfriend showed up.
Anything else you wanna share?
No, sir.
Wells may have been your brother,
but he was a son to me.
And 'cause of his courage,
we now know the enemy is close.
Well, I promise you,
they will not escape this time.
Storm blew down one of the panels
in the wall over by the gardens.
Hopefully, it's just the one.
What's worse, there's a fire
in the windmill that's drawing the
walkers from the surrounding areas.
We need to get that panel back up
and the fire out.
So, we're gonna need three teams.
I'll take one to fight the fire.
And I'll take a crew
to repair the wall.
We're gonna need another team
to protect everyone in here.
- I can handle that.
- Okay, good.
So, volunteers?
No. You just got back.
If she's up for it,
we could use the help.
She wants to go with Carol.
Thank you.
Well, then I'm joining too.
It's not up for discussion, sis.
- I'll go with you.
- So will I.
- Virgil, you can barely stand.
- I'd like to help.
I can use all the help I can get.
Make sure nothing gets in.
Yeah. Okay.
- I'll stay here.
- All right. Let's move.
I can go with you too.
Thank you, Judith, but I'd prefer it
if you stayed here.
I'm not scared.
No, I know you're not,
but I was really hoping
maybe you could help
the other kids feel a little less afraid.
Can you do that for me?
Good.
I'll be back
in a while, sweetie.
You do whatever Rosita tells you, okay?
Why can't you stay
and have somebody else go?
Because it wouldn't be fair of me
to ask someone do something
I wouldn't do myself.
- You understand?
- I can stay with you.
Thank you.
Let's move.
Rotters are gone.
But she's not.
How long did you travel
with her for?
- Not long at all.
- What can you tell me about her?
Not-- Not much.
Why am I keeping you around?
You said God chose me.
Oh, Dixon.
I had this dog
named him Tick,
on account he was a blue-tick hound.
Found him on the side of the road.
He was starving, half dead.
But the thing with some
of these rescues, like Tick,
they don't trust easy.
Sometimes I would reach for Tick
and he'd give me this look.
That look.
Like he couldn't decide whether
to lick my hand or bite it off.
Don't worry. Ain't gonna lick you.
There he is.
Fair enough.
Just don't try to bite me either.
Tick did. Hurt like hell having
to strangle that dog.
We kept him here
'cause he's an excellent tracker.
I'm sure he noticed something.
She's a great shot.
I know that. That's probably
how she took out Wells.
So where would you look for her?
Well, she's gonna
wanna see us coming.
She's got that bow, so I'd look up.
The trees maybe.
- Tree?
- Yeah.
- We'll see.
- Sir, they're back.
What is it?
Somehow she has turned the dead
against the living.
Oh, that's impressive.
- How strong is this gate?
- Oh, it's strong enough.
They won't get that far, though.
We need more boards.
Use the furniture.
Aaron will understand.
I'll help.
I wish I was more like you.
You're never afraid.
That's not true.
I've been scared plenty of times.
Never seems that way.
That's 'cause I've learned
how to use my fear.
- Use it?
- Yeah. You can too.
My mom taught me.
Just like how you can run faster
when you're scared,
you can fight better too.
It makes you stronger.
She'd be proud of you.
- Do you know where she went?
- I don't. I'm sorry.
I haven't heard from her in so long.
- I just wish she was here.
- She is.
I see her in the way you hold your sword,
the way you're ready
to run into the storm.
And how you talk to those kids,
helping them believe in themselves.
Your mom is still with you,
and you can bet that wherever
she is, you're with her.
Gracie, be careful.
They're all over out there.
Radio Carol. Tell her
there must be another breach.
A close one. Go.
Judith, candles, now.
- What's on your mind, Shaw?
- Nothing.
Come on. I know you better
than I know myself.
What?
I'm thinking of the ones we lost.
- And you blame me.
- I didn't say that.
"I will not offer to the lord my God
"burnt offerings
that cost me nothing."
These are all tribulations, Leah.
The black horse of Famine,
it rides after us all.
I knew this war was coming.
And in every war there is sacrifice.
That's why we were chosen
in the first place.
'Cause we didn't run from the fires,
like we don't run from our enemies.
Those men that died,
they didn't die in vain.
It's their sacrifice that shows
we are still worthy.
That's why we will prevail.
Man, you're missing
all the fireworks.
Dixon? What are you doing up here?
Pope told me to walk the perimeter,
so I'm walking the perimeter.
- You want a smoke?
- Yeah.
Here you go, man.
Quit these once.
Guess I'll have to quit them again.
Why?
Here you go.
We're holding good at the northern gate.
Walls are holding strong.
Hi. Hi. Psst.
Around that way. Go.
Where were you?
- Just want to be ready.
- Well, you're not gonna need them.
The rotters are scattered.
You sure about that?
My enemy never gives up.
Secure the gate. Shaw...
Ready the hwacha.
What's that?
That's how we're going to end this.
- What is that smell?
- Anything too rotten to eat or use.
It's why there's nobody out here.
Do you remember where you're going?
Top floor, second room,
southwest corner of the building.
Just remember to wait for my signal.
Got it.
We do this, and we get the food
and we go home.
- The hinges are coming apart.
- And the frame.
- What are you doing?
- I'm buying us time.
What?
What can I do?
Close the door behind me.
Keep it closed.
All right, on my count. One.
Two.
Three.
Let's stay away from the windows.
- Ready?
- Ready. Go.
- You built this?
- Yep.
Ancheta was a combat engineer.
Now he's our DaVinci, right?
This hwacha will make short work
of those rotters.
- We can mop up everything else.
- Let me know when you're ready.
Sorry about Wells.
I shouldn't have let him out there
by himself.
- It wasn't on you.
- It was my responsibility.
I should have had his back
like he's always had mine.
My people, we protect each other.
At least, we used to.
- Hey, can I ask you something?
- What?
Pope says, "God chose us."
- You believe all that?
- Why?
- Just asking.
- Look, I know how it sounds.
But when we had nothing.
He gave us something to hold onto.
We're all alive
'cause we believed in him.
What about now?
Doesn't matter
whether I believe or not.
Well, it matters to me.
You ever think
about what it'd be like
if we'd never left that cabin?
Yeah.
Yeah, I do.
It's hard to watch someone
you care about change.
And when they're hurting
other people you care about too.
Yeah, it is.
Daryl...
- What's the status of the hwacha?
- We're ready and standing by.
Okay, Leah, it's time to do this.
I'm on my way.
Wait. I have to tell you something.
What?
There's people down there
walking with the dead.
My people.
They're here for the food
that Pope took from them.
They'll starve without it
and they're good people.
They got families. They don't know
what's about to happen to them.
Please, you can't let them
die like this.
You lied to me.
To protect my family.
I'm sure you can understand that.
Carver told me not to trust you.
But I wanted to. So badly.
I didn't think
I could trust you either
when I saw who you were with.
What do you think Pope is gonna do
when he finds out you're with her?
He doesn't have to know.
You could come with me.
Just please, let me stop him.
Please, you gotta help me.
It is time for our enemy
to face their reckoning.
Oh, my.
What were you two talking about?
Family.
Ain't nothing more important.
The only real thing that
we got left in this world.
Would you agree, Dixon?
Yeah. Yeah, I would.
When this is done, I want you
to find that woman for me.
Bring her to me, Dixon.
Good man.
Deaver, what's the status
on the chain on that gate?
Heading to the garage now.
Hey! Stop!
Come here. No! No!
No!
Carver, what the hell
is going on down there?
It's the enemy,
they're inside the wall.
Aim into the courtyard and fire.
- Sir?
- Uh-huh. You heard me.
Now!
- Our people are out there.
- I am aware of that.
So let's call them back in.
Alert the enemy? No.
God will protect them.
And what if he doesn't?
- Then it was their time to die.
- Pope, we can win this another way.
We will win this our way.
- You can't kill our...
- I can.
I can.
The Lord speaks through me.
You don't question the Lord,
you don't question me!
Light it up.
...on fire!
Come on!
Leah, come on, before they find us.
Pope is dead.
Dixon murdered him.
He's with the enemy.
Shaw, repeat. Pope is dead?
Leah, do you copy?
We're on our way.
Why would you do that?
He forgot about what mattered.
Not war.
People.
My people.
You'd do anything to protect your family.
So would I.
Leah.
I should have killed him
when I had the chance.
- Go get the gate closed.
- Then what?
Then we're gonna kill
everything inside these walls.
This isn't gonna hold them for long.
There's too many of them.
Do I need to radio Aaron and Carol?
No. They need to put out
that fire and close those breaches.
If we get everyone upstairs, we can
hold them off to the first floor?
Yeah. Everyone, upstairs, now. Go.
Go with Hershel, RJ.
No, no, no, don't worry about me.
You go, get up those steps.
I will, with you.
- I'll get him. Okay?
- Yeah.
I'll take him from here, Judith.
Gracie?
Judith!
I'm down here.
Judith.
- I got this. Okay? You go get Coco.
- What?
Go! Go!
What are you doing?
I wanted something to fight with,
a weapon like you and Rosita have.
Here. We need to go.
Go, go, go.
Come on.
Fall back.
Let's go. Fall back. Fall back.
You've got to be shitting me.
They're retreating.
But why?